# BS Semester Project
OpenStack consists of many components like swift, glance, nova, cinder etc. these components have many parameters which should be checked constantly to have smooth working of the virtual machine running on the OpenStack like cpu , memory, storage etc. These components and their parameters can be monitored via a non-graphical user interface or terminal through commands which is really a hectic method to get the status of every component running in an OpenStack cloud. Thus nowadays no such tool or application exists that can effectively monitor all the components and return result to the user.

This tool will provide administrators of the OpenStack cloud to easily monitor the components of OpenStack via a graphical user interface. They don’t need to write every single command to check the status of any of the components of OpenStack cloud like currently how many virtual machines are running on OpenStack cloud, what is the status of cpu consumption, how much storage has been consumed by the virtual machines e.tc For all these question administrator of OpenStack cloud does not need to write commands now status of every single component of OpenStack will be visible to the administrator upon a single click. This tool will even solve the billing problem for most of the users as it will generate billing details on the consumption of the resources used. Thus it’s a golden opportunity for us because no such tool or application exists providing such functionalities.

Our product will mainly focus upon the monitoring of various components of OpenStack cloud, monitoring its physical and virtual resources, their metering and to produce billing information and to help the administrator in the maintenance of the OpenStack cloud.
